Some order.
Chair would like to begin by welcoming the guests who have come to our committee room.
State that you are completely welcome.
Insofar as our quarters can accommodate your presence.
And to find out that the committee has chosen for a class to enter which the chair has been asked to enforce.
Do the effect that there must be no manifestations audibly of approval or disapproval at any time or in any way from members of the audience.
And that the uniformed officers and the plain clothesmen in the room have a prevailing order from the chair can politely escort from the room immediately.
Anyone who violates the conditions under which you entered the hearing room which were, of course, to comply with the committee order to refrain completely from audible manifestations of approval or disapproval.
We have had the executive session which is announced by the chair, for a coincidence to the resolution to adjourn early this afternoon in order to give us time to have an executive session to discuss the problems growing out of the executive order dated May 17, which preclude Mr. Adams from the committee.
Mr. Adams from answering certain questions that certain members of the committee would like to interrogate him about.
Since this out-to-new session is undoubtedly going to be devoted at least in part to the making of motions and to a ventilation of the various opinions that committee members and perhaps counsel because they need you on a common level.
If you have about these motions, the chair would like to respectfully suggest the adoption of a five-minute rule by unanimous consent whereby at one thinking period at least no one among us talked longer than five minutes on any one point.
If you have to be done by unanimous consent but I do think the matters before us are important, those who want to be heard should be heard and if we can restrain ourselves by that device that should work in the interest of arguably procedure.
Is there any objections to the chair enforcing a five-minute rule on that basis?
The discussion was with Madam Deputy Prime Minister and the four-minute rule.
You may say, do you mean one five-minute period or a circle of five minutes?
I would say a circle if you want to be heard more than once as positively alright.
Just one question.
Is there any objections to that?
No objections, Mr. Chair.
Will the time be first, timely and struck yourself, according to the chair, will recognize that the reduction is a bit of an odd.
May I say that first of all, I am tenderly with four fifteen, the catch of plane, two tens and two road services at the time.
Consumably with the discussion that we had this noon, I give I make this motion which is not reduced to right in Mr. Chairman, but I believe this context will be clear.
I move that as an accepted fact, we take judicial notice of the presidential directive or letter, which was read into the record this morning,
and in view of its impact upon one of the participants.
As a result of the impossibility of such participants making full and complete proof and presentation of these cases,
because of the restriction upon witnesses who may have knowledge or information that are relevant in material to the common charges of the ten soldiers was made by Senator McCarty.
I move you, Mr. Chairman, that this committee recessed until Monday morning next at 10 o'clock, for the purpose of exploring this map of the scene that we are.
Now if there's a second of that moving in the chairman.
I second Mr. Chairman.
Then I can discharge by the chair, second is made by Senator Milner of Michigan, Mr. Chairman, I want to discuss it just very, very briefly.
In a well-turned Bostonese phrase that we have had for Mr. Wells, he has spoken on many occasions about traveling or following along the hard path.
Mr. Chairman, that thought could become the solitary throw of frustration.
If we put on witnesses day after day in her testimony, only to discover at the end of the trail that the interdiction upon the calling of certain witnesses that Senator McCarty would be material to his cause still stood.
And the proof in the case could not be complete.
The proof could not be fully established.
The result with the income can be considered.
And so much of the work in the committee would not only prove the frustration that, frankly, Mr. Chairman, I do not see how this committee is sitting in its capacity as in less to get orders and judges and jurors.
Could finally make a fine million make a report with the proof in complete.
Under those circumstances and because we have set the list letter upon witnesses that cannot be called to testify, by an honest play, admiring the committee that the proof into the reasonable things to do with the moment.
It used to take enough time to explore the full impact of this executive order to determine whether or not there any modifications or exceptions to it.
And to make that determination before we go further down this road.
That's all Mr. Chairman.
Chair I recognize any other member of the committee, Mr. Clerk, who wants to be heard and asked if that member of the entity involved in this group, who might want to be heard.
Mr. Chairman, I second the motion of made by Senator Clerk, second the motion.
Mr. Clerk, I would like to thank Dr. Droom to start with an oephus made by any member of the committee, no.
Dr. Droom, by express by any member of the committee that was within the hearing.
So we have a meeting for the executive order.
One of the principles from participating as fully as he deems the message of that is Kate.
The committee ruled at the beginning that noted, well done, items, which could be considered by the various principles in the case.
The principle believes that the mortgages could not be driven because of the executive order.
Now it's not our position at this time to judge whether the executive order is expected not.
So, perhaps we have the executive order which the head of the committee found having an information.
The conversation that took place in the office of the attorney general.
Are these all members of the committee?
But, you know, that this question must be resolved before we continue on.
We continue on with the hearing and bring on other witnesses with us hanging over our head.
There will be a post-reality hearing more than some updates already.
And we will end up still in the county area where there will be more typical for the committee and for the public to reach any conclusion based upon facts.
Therefore, it's my post that has resolved of this recess that members of our committee in the conjunction with the responsible leaders and the executive branch of governments will be able to resolve parts of this conference.
And that the hearing may continue so that the facts may be ascertained before the benefit of the committee on the general public.
Therefore, our second of the motions made by Senator.
Under the time of the meeting with Mr. Chair, do you want to hear?
Mr. Chairman, I'm with the short statement basically here.
I think this proposed action to recess the hearing at this time is completely unfair.
Secretary Steven has been subjected to an ordeal that has few power-mails in our congressional history.
Army Council Adam has been questioned vigorously over some days.
To adopt this transparent device now, to let the other side avoid the necessity of taking the stand in public, and inform the American people of the facts under rule, there's a flakement denial of fairness and justice.
For some days, leadership in the Senate and the administration have been anxious to see these hearings recessed if not terminated.
They would already have been recessed or terminated now.
The Secretary Steven did not sit off to his responsibility.
If you carry this proposed action to a logical conclusion, any legislative investigation of this character could be stopped by executive direction.
I predicted if these hearings are recessed because of this presidential directive, and the directive is not withdrawn,
they may never start again.
And therefore, I recommend we go ahead with other Army witnesses besides Mr. Adam who are here ready to take the stand.
It's my belief the American people will regard this latest development as but the first step in a possible white wise, and therefore, I'll have no part of it.
Mr. Any other members of the committee? Senator Jackson?
Chairman.
My own personal view is that we could proceed to hear the balance of the witnesses, but I understand we'll be presented by or can be presented by our council in connection with the so-called Army side of this controversy.
I frankly have grievance giving the boss the need for any recess at this time, but an assert of fairness, and if it is possible for appropriate people to get in touch with the White House, so that this order can be modified.
I would be willing to make a substitute motion that the committee stand and recess until 10 o'clock this Wednesday morning.
If this executive order is going to be modified, it'll be modified by that time.
I do not believe we need a full week to take up this serious question raised by the issuance of the executive order as of today.
I would therefore like to move as the substitute that the committee stand in recess until Wednesday morning at 10 a.m.
I believe a while this motion may be against my better judgment. I believe it is fair in light of the serious questions raised by the proposed executive order or by the executive order.
I think it is very unfortunate that such an executive order has been issued.
I think the issuance of this executive order is a serious mistake. If such an order was to be issued, I think it should have been issued long ago.
We could have known that a part of the truth would never be available to this committee.
We could have determined then whether we would undertake these hearings under those conditions.
But there has been repeated statements made from both sides and from all participants that they wanted to get the whole truth.
That has been my purpose. But if this order prevails, if it is not modified or extended, I am convinced now we cannot get the truth the whole truth because the witness who is now on the stand is recruited from telling us whether the risk is not required.
I think the responsibility is shifted from the secretary of the army after the conference on January 21st or 22nd or if it still remains there.
I would like to be far too far as I am concerned I disagree with the presidential executive director. At least to this extent my interpretation of it does not permit this witness from telling when he has responsibilities as he is for his acts.
And when the responsibility of the secretary of the army for his acts is seen and on last month's president we can determine that then we are excluded from pursuing the truth in this controversy.
But in order to be fair to give the administration the opportunity to reconsider the action it has taken I am willing to vote for the substitute motion.
Mr. President I am a chairman I remind you and my colleagues that we have heard at this investigating table day after day that these proceedings are holding up the work of this committee in a very responsible field of investigating communism and the vice-versa-versa-versa-versa-government.
I am at the president if we extend we recess over to Monday we are delaying it that much longer.
And I do believe those responsible for this executive order can reconsider and either confirm the actions that has already been taken or modified or rescinded within 48 hours from this time.
My belief is that if this order stands as it is now it means these hearings are terminated.
So I may say that the chairman in my opinion that the pretty grave responsibility for the administration's case to stop these proceedings now.
Therefore with the purpose of being fair and considered and giving an opportunity as I believe to correct the mayor I shall vote for the substitute motion.
And therefore I have checked in the motion Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Chairman I remind you that the right to be very brief on this five-degree claim is unbiased and poached with these hearings so that we might survive a just and equitable conclusion.
I do not think there is any justification for making the charge or implying that any white watch is involved or that any attention being made in this time to prevent some of the questions from taking this stand for as long as the members of this committee are the times we desire an answer to questions.
I suppose that the closing recently to expedite the hearings so it may be terminated as quickly as possible when it's back when all of the facts are I should change.
So I was an unsuccessful effort.
I think now that with this development involving the executive order of the president is extremely difficult for the members of this subcommittee to go into the very best practice of this controversy because obviously if I will tackle the place to find some of the witnesses making it extremely difficult for the members of this subcommittee to know what the motive is or what the committee is.
So what is actually back of this entire controversy.
I think that the time like this when you reach an impact but it is highly desirable to have a brief recess to explore all of these possibilities of renewing these hearings on a basis that will make it possible for the subcommittee to reach an inequitable position.
I do not think that the business will propose recess in any way will serve to satisfy these hearings prevent Senator McCoy from the party or in any other way to touch this then so that we cannot arrive at the time to make verdict that the people of this country will approve.
Now that basis I think we must reset and resolve these extreme difficulties which we encountered today.
The chair would like to read the original instructions of charges and counter charges that he read the first morning which were worked out in collaboration with Senator McCoy and our council would agree that I should read them as representing the committee position so we can have the framework of this discussion clearly before.
I said then in behalf of Senator McCoy and council Jenkins and myself.
The purpose of investigating charges shorted for a maid by Secretary of the Army Robert PC was on his council John G. Adams and formalized in a document date of April 13, 1954 and filed with this subcommittee and in which a general charge is made the Senator Joseph Armack-Carty is chairman of the permanent subcommittee on investigation in the United States Senate.
The court has set its chief council roya m cone as well as other members of its staff sought by improper means to obtain preferential treatment for one's private G David Chang in the state army and so forth.
The point out that the charges as we thought at the time were charges duty for a maid by Secretary of the Army Robert PC and his council John G. Adams.
The answer which Mr. Adams has been unable to give because of the presidential directive to a question asked by Senator McCoy and precludes us from knowing whether or not those original charges were based on the proper purpose.
I read further is the further purpose of the subcommittee to investigate counter charges by Senator McCarty Mr. Cohn and other members of their staff against Mr. Stevens Mr. Adams and Mr. Hemp.
These counter charges were formalized in a statement signed and filed with the subcommittee under the date of April 10, 1954 in which they generally alleged that Mr. Stevens Mr. Adams and Mr. Hemp.
Attempted to discredit what is generally referred to as the McCarthy Investigating Committee and before a discontinuation further attempts by that committee to expose the time and history of infiltration in the army.
In which of this further charge that Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adams made constant attempts to trade off preferential treatment for private child as an inducement of the subcommittee to hold its exposition of the misunderstanding of time and its infiltration in the military.
And point out that until we can get some kind of answer from Mr. Adams to what have occurred at that luncheon if there was a shifting of responsibility, it may well be that the committee has been asking the wrong questions of the wrong people for a long time in these years.
Because of that difficult situation, it seems to me that it is wise that we take some time that can start with the Attorney General and with the White House to see whether or not there cannot be a modification or an interpretation or an understanding of the executive order which will permit Mr. Adams and those associated with him at that meeting to testify on the pertinent point so that we can be sure.
Whether or not we have been proceeding on proper and firm ground and the hearings up to this time and so that as we proceed with the interrogation of Senator McCarthy and Mr. Cohn, we can be sure of the background in order that the questions can be put into the case.
In the executive session, it was just that it would be well if the Council for the committee and the chair approached the proper authorities in the executive department to see whether there could be such a modification or reinterpretation.
I think that we want to continue with each hearings until we get out all of the troops as is well known that chair departed from the accustomed company of the Republican colleagues one day and voted in the unfamiliar company of three of his Democrat associates in order to provide that we could continue until all of the facts were provided.
It sure believes that a recess at this time may be conducive to a rearrangement of situations so we can continue to get out all of the facts and is well aware of the validity of that portion of the remarks made by Senator McCollum that we labor under a very difficult handicap in our search for truth.
If we are unable to bring out certain of the facts which Mr. Adams now deals, he is unable to provide because of the executive order.
Having said that, the chair would simply say if we're going to recess at all, he thinks we should recess until Monday.
The president is a very busy man. He has the problems of Indochina on his hands. He has a great many conflicts.
I think it's completely unreasonable to expect that we can go down there without any advanced notice and by Wednesday morning in about 24 hours reach a type of understanding essential for the proper continuation of the hearings.
He believes that the White House and the Attorney General would want time to read a considerable amount of the transcripts, the significance of the charges and counterchanges.
To have the full background before them, before they wanted to re-evaluate if we evaluate they will, they determine it.
So if it is in the interest of truth and facts to get out all the information as a chair believes it is, it certainly is in interest of those basic goals also to provide time enough.
To have a reasonable opportunity to present this full impact of this executive order upon those who made it and to get a reasoned and careful reply in return.
The Chair believes that he should give an opportunity now as he has had the testimony of doing.
Mr. Wilson, Senator McCarthy, to make any statement they might carry or to voice any protest they might want to voice, concerning the contemplated action of the committee.
Mr. Chairman, as everyone knows if I am anything, I am just a trial lawyer who came to Washington hoping to try to case.
At this moment, I am neither blind nor dead.
No one sitting in this chair would hope to summon words so persuasive or so bold as to influence a single vote on this committee.
I therefore confine myself to the only thing where I have any choice and that is whether we have an adjournment for 48 hours or until next Monday.
On that, the Army stands indifferent, but this I wish to say when the adjournment and the Army will be ready.
Mr. Chairman, I think that the President has signed this order.
No. 1, a reasonable man, No. 2, a fair man.
I doubt that all the work that he has before him that he had any complete instruction, texture of what he was doing.
I think we should bring with attention the fact that his order provides an effect that rather machinery with such an motion to initiate the swear charge of the Gulf of Chicago and the Gulf of Chicago must occur in myself that he has ordered plans for the approval of the committee from finding out who was responsible, who was the initiating plan.
I think this is doubly important, Mr. Chairman, because of the testimony here to foretaken to the effect of Mr. Brown, the Attorney General, Mr. Rogers, the Deputy Attorney General were present about time.
And that means some of the actions taken by Mr. Adams was the result of suggestions from Mr. Rogers.
No. The chair knows of suggestions from the White House as the same as an order.
I think we must know what part of the Attorney General or the Deputy Attorney General is talking this and we have to add this time. I am completely in the dark.
I don't know. I think that's extremely important to each day with Mr. Attorney General in transcript of the record.
I know that when we get through with this testimony, the testimony of witnesses will be diametrically opposed.
I know that someone will have to have his case presented to a grand jury for indictment for purchase.
In other words, when my testimony is ended, either McCarthy will be guilty of curgery or some of the other witnesses in this case will be.
The Attorney General was passed upon that, therefore I think we must know what part he took in this whole picture.
It is also important that Mr. Chairman of the U of the factory has been told upon almost daily, given opinion of what documents can be admit.
I would like to...